my-app
├── config
│   ├── config.js
│   └── config.json
├── src
│   ├── components
│   │   ├── SomeComponent.jsx
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── models
│   │   ├── SomeModel.js
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── resolvers
│   │   ├── index.js
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── schema
│   │   ├── typeDefs.js
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── views
│   │   ├── SomePage.jsx
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── App.js
│   ├── App.css
│   ├── index.js
│   └── ...
├── public
│   ├── index.html
│   └── ...
├── node_modules
├── .env
├── package.json
└── server.js
Explanation:

config: Configuration files for connecting to the database and other settings.

src: Contains all the source code for your client-side (React) and server-side (GraphQL) logic.

components: React components.

models: Mongoose schemas and models.

resolvers: Resolver functions for GraphQL queries, mutations, etc.

schema: GraphQL schema definitions using SDL (Schema Definition Language).

views: React views, representing different pages or views in your application.

public: Public files served by the server (like the HTML entry point).

node_modules: Installed npm packages.

.env: Environment variables for storing sensitive information like database connection strings.

server.js: The main entry point for your Express server and GraphQL server (e.g., Apollo Server).

This structure keeps a separation between the client-side and server-side logic and fits well within the MVC paradigm. Model (Mongoose models), View (React components), and Controller (GraphQL resolvers) are kept in separate directories.

Here's a step-by-step process:
Create a new React app: npx create-react-app my-app
Navigate to the directory: cd my-app
Install GraphQL and Apollo Client dependencies: npm install apollo-boost react-apollo graphql-tag graphql
Install Mongoose: npm install mongoose
Create the necessary directories and files: You can manually create the structure, or use terminal commands like mkdir for directories and touch for files.


The directory structure you've provided suggests a typical modern web application that likely uses React for the frontend and possibly Express for the backend (judging by the presence of server.js and models). Here's an explanation of the control flow based on the common conventions in this file structure:

Starting Point (index.js in the src directory): This is often the entry point for React applications, where the main App component is rendered into the root element of your HTML file.

React Components (components directory): This directory would contain all the React components used in the application. These might be imported and used within other components, views, or directly in App.js.

Views (views directory): This directory may contain pages or views that use the components. The views might be rendered based on different routes or user interactions.

App Component (App.js): This file is likely the root component of your React application, and it might define the main layout and routing logic.

Models (models directory): If this application has a backend, the models directory might define data models, such as database schemas. It's used for handling data structure in the application.

Resolvers (resolvers directory): If this application uses GraphQL, the resolvers are functions that provide instructions for turning a GraphQL operation into data. They resolve the query to the data by defining how the types and fields in the schema are connected to various backends.

Schema (schema directory): This directory likely contains the GraphQL schema defining the types and operations allowed in the API.

Config (config directory): This might contain various configuration files that can be imported throughout the application, such as database connections, third-party service credentials, or general application settings.

Public Directory: This is where static files might be stored, such as the HTML file that gets served as the entry point to the application.

Server File (server.js): If this is a full-stack application, this file might set up and start an Express server to handle API requests, serve static files, and more.

Environment Variables (.env): This file would store sensitive information like database connection strings, API keys, etc. It's usually used in conjunction with a package like dotenv to load those variables into process.env.

Package Management (package.json and node_modules): package.json manages dependencies and scripts for the application. node_modules is where all the installed packages are stored.